# Project Overview 
In this project, we will use exploratory and inferential data analysis to look into and gain an understanding of the movie industry in the US and globally to inform the client's decision whether to invest in it and the viability. We will go further to establish which movie genres are most commercially and financially viable.

## Business Understanding
Includes stakeholder and key business decisions

#### Business Question
The key business question is whether investment in the movie industry financially viable and what genres are the most commercially successful?

To determine the above, we shall look at the following specific areas from the data:
a. Which movie genre is most commonly produced?
b. Which genres received the highest audience ratings?
    Were the differences statistically significant?
c. Which genres received the largest audience/ viewership?
    Were these differences statistically significant?
d. What was the production cost of the 5 most common movie genres?
e. What income was generated by the 5 most common movie genres

Sub-Analysis:
a. What is the relationship between production costs and gross income?

### Data Understanding 
#### Data sources, description and relevant columns used
Five datasets were provided. We will focus on the following three that provide the data most relevant to the business questions above.

1. IMDB (https://www.imdb.com/)
IMBD is and online database of information related to films, television, series, podcasts, video games and online streaming content. The provided data is in a SQLite database and the movie ratings table will be most relevant in answering the business questions on audience size and ratings.

2. Box office Mojo (https://www.boxofficemojo.com/)
This is a subsidiary of IMDB and is an online platform that provides data on commercial performance of films i.e. ticket sales revenue. The data comes as a CSV file with columns providing the domestic gross earnings and foreign gross earnings for 3,387 movie titles.

3. The Numbers (https://www.the-numbers.com/) 
This online platform also provides a film's domestic and foreign gross revenue figures from ticket sales but also includes data on production budgets for 5,781 movie titles.

 
### Data Preperation and Cleaning
The following libraries are imported for use in data preparation and cleaning:
- Pandas: to read, edit, save CSV, TSV files
- SQLite : to query SQLite database tables

### Data Analysis 
The following libraries are used for data analysis:
- Pandas
- Statsmodel and Scipy.stats for inferential statistics and regression models

Regression analysis

### Data Visualisation 
The following libraries are used for data analysis:
- Pandas
- Matplotlib and seaborn for visualisations


## Findings

We shall conclude by revisiting the business questions initially set out and state the answers gotten from our data analysis.

a. Which movie genre is smost commonly produced?

b. Which genres received the highest audience ratings?

    Were the differences statistically significant?

c. Which genres received the largest audience/ viewership?

    Were these differences statistically significant?

d. What was the production cost of the 5 most common movie genres?

e. What income was generated by the 5 most common movie genres

Sub-Analysis:
a. What is the relationship between production costs and gross income?


# Recommendations
From the above conclusions based on the data analysed, we make the following recommendations:

1.

2.

3.

# Limitations

1. We left out the rotten tomatoes movie source since the rating column that we would have used from it had both numerical and non_numerical grade ratings that would have made data analysis difficult.

2. We also opted to leave out the tmdb movie source since the movie genres within it were coded under the ID column, and there was no references to use, to help us know which movie ID belonged to which movie genre.

3. We could not use IMDB for regression analysis as it didn't have the columns or data on production budgets or gross incomes for the movie titles. Similarly, Box office mojo lacked the production cost column and therefore also not used for regression analysis.

